---
layout: post
title: Escaping Java but not its thinking
categories:
- sightings
author: admin
published: true
date: 2004-12-31 12:14:03.000000000 +00:00
---
<p>Kevin Dangoor is <a href="http://www.blueskyonmars.com/archives/2004/12/29/blue_sky_development.html">getting out of J2EE development</a> after four years of legacy mud and <a href="http://www.loudthinking.com/arc/000333.html">fear-driven technology choices</a>. He has picked to start his new businesses on a dynamic language with Python. Unfortunately, he&#8217;s still stuck in Java-skewed thinking on the difficulties of learning a new dynamic language or framework:</p>
<blockquote>Ruby looks nice and Rails is attracting a lot of attention for good reason. Seaside on Squeak should be attracting attention, because it looks like a very productive way to put together apps. There are two problems with both of these: 1) I don&#8217;t know them, and 2) they are less mature and have smaller communities than Python or Java.<br /><br />I can certainly overcome (1), but that would slow me down initially. The clock is ticking, because I need to generate money to pay my mortgage and all that&#8230; The second point also means slower velocity: there are fewer places to turn for help. There are fewer prepackaged modules, and those modules may be less-tested.</blockquote>
<p>I guess its natural to think that you must stay in the <a href="http://64.233.183.104/search?q=cache:FYIs7grWdC4J:www.agsm.unsw.edu.au/~timdev/readings/READ30.PDF+%22competency+trap%22&amp;hl=en">competency trap</a> when exiting one of the deepest and most alive in the tech world today. But it needs not be this way. Very much unlike Java, it doesn&#8217;t take months and months to gather hard-won experiences with application servers or climb mountain-high framework stacks when starting out with Rails (or Seaside+Persistance for that matter). You can try it out in a day or two and have a pretty darn good idea of what&#8217;s going on. So the cost of escaping the competency trap is at an all time low.</p>
<p>So let&#8217;s address the charge &#8220;less mature and have smaller communities&#8221;. I&#8217;ve found that while a language community at large is a nice backup, the real importance for productivity is having a strong community around the frameworks that you pick. When people have problems with Ruby on Rails, it&#8217;s very rarely the general ruby-talk mailing list that hears their pleas. It&#8217;s the Rails-specific outlets.</p>
<p>Speaking of those, the Rails mailing list is buzzing with activity averaging <em>26 mails per day</em> in December. The Rails <span class="caps">IRC</span> channel is ever so alive filled with <em>between 100 and 120 developers every single day</em>. This is a uniquely vibrant force that&#8217;s able to provide end-to-end help and advice. Unlike the scattered search for assistance that&#8217;s necessary when trying to combine template, web-flow, and persistance frameworks from separate communities.</p>
<p>This is not a charge against Python for not having a complete <em>on Rails</em> solution, but rather just a dissimal of the claim that the Ruby sub-community of interest should be <em>less</em> mature or vibrant than a comparable stack in Python. It&#8217;s simply not the case.</p>
<p>So. Blue Sky Development woes to persue &#8220;technology choices [that] can be made on technical (and business) merit without politics getting in the way&#8221;. I&#8217;d say you owe that statement at the very least a day or two outside your most immediate comfort zone. I&#8217;m pretty sure you&#8217;ll find that the competency trap is not inescapable and that the fears of a missing community are expelled instantly.</p>