---
layout: post
title: Potential Circumvention of CSRF Protection in Rails 2.1
categories: []
author: michael
published: true
date: 2008-11-18 18:13:00.000000000 +00:00
---
<p>There is a bug in all 2.1.x versions of Ruby on Rails which affects the effectiveness of the <span class="caps">CSRF</span> protection given by protect_from_forgery.</p>
<p>By design rails does not perform token verification on requests with certain content types not typically generated by browsers.  Unfortunately this list also included &#8216;text/plain&#8217; which can be generated by browsers.</p>
<h2>Impact</h2>
<p>Requests can be crafted which will circumvent the <span class="caps">CSRF</span> protection entirely.  Rails does not parse the parameters provided with these requests, but that may not be enough to protect your application.</p>
<h2>Affected Versions</h2>
<ul>
	<li>All releases in the 2.1 series</li>
	<li>All 2.2 Pre Releases</li>
</ul>
<h2>Fixes</h2>
<p>The upcoming 2.1.3 and 2.2.2 releases will contain a fix for this issue.</p>
<h2>Interim Workarounds</h2>
<p>Users of 2.1.x releases are advised to insert the following code into a file in config/initializers/</p>
<p>&gt;  Mime::Type.unverifiable_types.delete(:text)</p>
<p>Users of Edge Rails after 2.2.1, should upgrade to the latest code in 2-2-stable.</p>
<p>The patch for the 2.1.x series is available on <a href="http://github.com/rails/rails/commit/099a98e9b7108dae3e0f78b207e0a7dc5913bd1a">github</a>. This will also apply cleanly to 2.2 pre-releases prior to <a href="http://github.com/rails/rails/commit/f1ad8b48aae3ee26613b3e77bc0056e120096846">this changeset</a> released on Thursday November 13th at 11:19:53 2008 <span class="caps">CET</span>.  Users with edge-rails checkouts after that date, are advised to upgrade to the latest code in 2-2-stable.</p>
<p>Thanks to <a href="http://coderrr.wordpress.com/">Steve from Coderrr</a> for reporting this issue.</p>