---
layout: post
title: ! '[ANN] Rails 3.0.8.rc1'
categories: []
author: aaronp
published: true
date: 2011-05-26 00:19:00.000000000 +01:00
---
ZOMG HI EVERYBODY!!!!  HAPPY WEDNESDAY (UTC-7).

I am EXCITED, PLEASED, and even MORE EXCITED to announce the release of the
Rails 3.0.8 released candidate NUMBER ONE!

## OMG RELEASE CANDIDATE.  WHAT DOES IT MEAN?

This is a release candidate!  It means that we (the rails core team) are asking
*you* (our lovely users) to test out the code that we'd like to release!

This is your chance to VETO our release of Rails 3.0.8 final!

## VETO??  WHY WOULD I DO THAT?

Well you see, dear public, let me explain.  In order to bring you this latest
and greatest released of rails, we've made bug fixes and changed codes.
Unfortunately, that means that we may have inadvertently broken your
application.  We don't want to break your application, we want to fix bugs!

This is your chance to try our the release candidate and let us know if we've
broken your application!

## HOW DO I TEST YOUR WONDERFUL AND AMAZING RELEASE CANDIDATE?

Very simple!  If you're using bundler, just update your Gemfile to point at
rails version '3.0.8.rc1'.  Then do a `bundle update`, and you're off to the
races!  Make sure your application behaves normally, all your tests pass, etc.

## I think I've found a boog!  How do I veto???

It's easy, breezy, beautiful, to veto!  Just reply to this on the [rails-core
mailing list](http://groups.google.com/group/rubyonrails-core?pli=1), and let us
know what went wrong!  We'll fix the problem and cut another release candidate.

Make sure to check that your failure does not occur on Rails 3.0.7, but *does*
occur on the release candidate.  If the failure is also on 3.0.7, we still want
to know!  It just won't block our release.

## TELLME THE CHANGES YOU'VE MADE!

Ok, just calm down.  For now, go check out this [link on github](https://github.com/rails/rails/compare/v3.0.7...v3.0.8.rc1).

Or go check out the CHANGELOG files in each project.  When we release the final,
I'll add the changelog to the announce email.

## WHEN WILL THE FINAL RELEASE BE???  TELL ME NOW!!!

Typically we release the final version 72 hours after the release candidate.
But this weekend is a holiday, so I don't feel like doing a release this
weekend.  Instead, I will target the final to be released on May 31st.

If we find show stopping bugs, we'll release another RC and the 72hour counter
will reset!

## WHY AREN'T YOU RELEASING ON THE WEEKEND?  COMMON, BRO.

What?!?!  Why aren't *you* releasing on the weekend???  I'm going to be making
sausage.  :-P

Thanks everybody!!!!

<3 <3 <3 <3 <3 <3
