---
layout: post
title: Rails 3.1.1 has been released!
categories:
- releases
author: spastorino
published: true
date: 2011-10-07 15:20:00.000000000 +01:00
---
Hi everyone,

Rails 3.1.1 has been released. **This release requires at least sass-rails 3.1.4**

## CHANGES

*Action Mailer*

* No changes


*Action Pack*

* stylesheet_link_tag('/stylesheets/application') and similar helpers doesn't
throw Sprockets::FileOutsidePaths exception anymore [Santiago Pastorino]

* Ensure default_asset_host_protocol is respected, closes #2980. [José Valim]

  Changing rake db:schema:dump to run :environment as well as :load_config,
  as running :load_config alone will lead to the dumper being run without
  including extensions such as those included in foreigner and
  spatial_adapter.

  This reverses a change made here:
  https://github.com/rails/rails/commit/5df72a238e9fcb18daf6ab6e6dc9051c9106d7bb#L0L324

  I'm assuming here that :load_config needs to be invoked
  separately from :environment, as it is elsewhere in the
  file for db operations, if not the alternative is to go
  back to "task :dump => :environment do".

  [Ben Woosley]

* Update to rack-cache 1.1.

  Versions prior to 1.1 delete the If-Modified-Since and If-Not-Modified
  headers when config.action_controller.perform_caching is true. This has two
  problems:
    * unexpected inconsistent behaviour between development &
      production environments
    * breaks applications that use of these headers

  [Brendan Ribera]

* Ensure that enhancements to assets:precompile task are only run once [Sam Pohlenz]

* TestCase should respect the view_assigns API instead of pulling variables on
its own. [José Valim]

* javascript_path and stylesheet_path now refer to /assets if asset pipelining
is on. [Santiago Pastorino]

* button_to support form option. Now you're able to pass for example
'data-type' => 'json'. [ihower]

* image_path and image_tag should use /assets if asset pipelining is turned
on. Closes #3126 [Santiago Pastorino and christos]

* Avoid use of existing precompiled assets during rake assets:precompile run.
Closes #3119 [Guillermo Iguaran]

* Copy assets to nondigested filenames too [Santiago Pastorino]

* Give precedence to `config.digest = false` over the existence of
manifest.yml asset digests [christos]

* escape options for the stylesheet_link_tag method [Alexey Vakhov]

* Re-launch assets:precompile task using (Rake.)ruby instead of Kernel.exec so
it works on Windows [cablegram]

* env var passed to process shouldn't be modified in process method. [Santiago
Pastorino]

* `rake assets:precompile` loads the application but does not initialize
it.

  To the app developer, this means configuration add in
	config/initializers/* will not be executed.

  Plugins developers need to special case their initializers that are
  meant to be run in the assets group by adding :group => :assets. [José Valim]

* Sprockets uses config.assets.prefix for asset_path [asee]

* FileStore key_file_path properly limit filenames to 255 characters. [phuibonhoa]

* Fix Hash#to_query edge case with html_safe strings. [brainopia]

* Allow asset tag helper methods to accept :digest => false option in order to completely avoid the digest generation.
Useful for linking assets from static html files or from emails when the user
could probably look at an older html email with an older asset. [Santiago Pastorino]

* Don't mount Sprockets server at config.assets.prefix if config.assets.compile is false. [Mark J. Titorenko]

* Set relative url root in assets when controller isn't available for Sprockets (eg. Sass files using asset_path). Fixes #2435 [Guillermo Iguaran]

* Fix basic auth credential generation to not make newlines. GH #2882

* Fixed the behavior of asset pipeline when config.assets.digest and config.assets.compile are false and requested asset isn't precompiled.
  Before the requested asset were compiled anyway ignoring that the config.assets.compile flag is false. [Guillermo Iguaran]

* CookieJar is now Enumerable. Fixes #2795

* Fixed AssetNotPrecompiled error raised when rake assets:precompile is compiling certain .erb files. See GH #2763 #2765 #2805 [Guillermo Iguaran]

* Manifest is correctly placed in assets path when default assets prefix is changed. Fixes #2776 [Guillermo Iguaran]

* Fixed stylesheet_link_tag and javascript_include_tag to respect additional options passed by the users when debug is on. [Guillermo Iguaran]

* Fix ActiveRecord#exists? when passsed a nil value

* Fix assert_select_email to work on multipart and non-multipart emails as the method stopped working correctly in Rails 3.x due to changes in the new mail gem.


*Active Model*

* Remove hard dependency on bcrypt-ruby to avoid make ActiveModel dependent on a binary library.
  You must add the gem explicitly to your Gemfile if you want use ActiveModel::SecurePassword:

  gem 'bcrypt-ruby', '~> 3.0.0'

  See GH #2687. [Guillermo Iguaran]


*Active Record*

* Add deprecation for the preload_associations method. Fixes #3022.

  [Jon Leighton]

* Don't require a DB connection when loading a model that uses set_primary_key. GH #2807.

  [Jon Leighton]

* Fix using select() with a habtm association, e.g. Person.friends.select(:name). GH #3030 and #2923.

  [Hendy Tanata]

* Fix belongs_to polymorphic with custom primary key on target. GH #3104.

  [Jon Leighton]

* CollectionProxy#replace should change the DB records rather than just mutating the array.
  Fixes #3020.

  [Jon Leighton]

* LRU cache in mysql and sqlite are now per-process caches.

	* lib/active_record/connection_adapters/mysql_adapter.rb: LRU cache
	  keys are per process id.
	* lib/active_record/connection_adapters/sqlite_adapter.rb: ditto

* Database adapters use a statement pool for limiting the number of open
  prepared statments on the database.  The limit defaults to 1000, but can
  be adjusted in your database config by changing 'statement_limit'.

* Fix clash between using 'preload', 'joins' or 'eager_load' in a default scope and including the
  default scoped model in a nested through association. (GH #2834.) [Jon Leighton]

* Ensure we are not comparing a string with a symbol in HasManyAssociation#inverse_updates_counter_cache?.
  Fixes GH #2755, where a counter cache could be decremented twice as far as it was supposed to be.

  [Jon Leighton]

* Don't send any queries to the database when the foreign key of a belongs_to is nil. Fixes
  GH #2828. [Georg Friedrich]

* Fixed find_in_batches method to not include order from default_scope. See GH #2832 [Arun Agrawal]

* Don't compute table name for abstract classes. Fixes problem with setting the primary key
  in an abstract class. See GH #2791. [Akira Matsuda]

* Psych errors with poor yaml formatting are proxied. Fixes GH #2645 and
  GH #2731

* Use the LIMIT word with the methods #last and #first. Fixes GH #2783 [Damien Mathieu]


*Active Resource*

* No changes


*Active Support*

* ruby193: String#prepend is also unsafe [Akira Matsuda]

* Fix obviously breakage of Time.=== for Time subclasses [jeremyevans]

* Added fix so that file store does not raise an exception when cache dir does
not exist yet. This can happen if a delete_matched is called before anything
is saved in the cache. [Philippe Huibonhoa]

* Fixed performance issue where TimeZone lookups would require tzinfo each time [Tim Lucas]

* ActiveSupport::OrderedHash is now marked as extractable when using Array#extract_options! [Prem Sichanugrist]


*Railties*

* Add jquery-rails to Gemfile of plugins, test/dummy app needs it. Closes #3091. [Santiago Pastorino]

* `rake assets:precompile` loads the application but does not initialize it.

  To the app developer, this means configuration add in
  config/initializers/* will not be executed.

  Plugins developers need to special case their initializers that are
  meant to be run in the assets group by adding :group => :assets.


## SHA-1

* 9337cff7772da034b0b34b73b85cf249f1a70f52  actionmailer-3.1.1.gem
* 7bb1b8d096a6ff1ff46dcfb778bf86a5daca1b0d  actionpack-3.1.1.gem
* d5dc71e1a9a0e20d819f4dff27ff0697e99a7f64  activemodel-3.1.1.gem
* 7245632cb3b38612628304c1e244855d0053f7be  activerecord-3.1.1.gem
* 6d09800202c2747e84249b8646f0fd480ed4924f  activeresource-3.1.1.gem
* 66df2fd144aab22f52819fd489e33a976d68a46b  activesupport-3.1.1.gem
* 6a35a49948bbd9f461839a1a271def90b23a851a  rails-3.1.1.gem
* 6979ef891bd03fb639b979af9fdc56781f9358d9  railties-3.1.1.gem

You can find an exhaustive list of changes on [github](https://github.com/rails/rails/compare/v3.1.0...v3.1.1). Along with the [closed issues marked for v3.1.1](https://github.com/rails/rails/issues?milestone=6&state=closed).

Thanks to everyone!